Introduce myself
Give a brief outline of the talk to give a reason to pay attention
What is reason? Reason is a new syntax for the OCaml language.  Hmm...what's OCaml?
Companies have a maintainiblity problem with JS codebases. Adding new feature breaks others.
Take a few steps back and talk about Elm / Reason / PureScript
 - why?  Maintainability.  Makes it easier to build complex applications.... like how ReactJS made it easier to reason about JS applications.
 - Elm & PureScript were inspired by Haskell. Reason was inspired by OCaml....well, it is OCaml.  Take advantage of both JS & OCaml ecosystems.  Compile to native, etc.
I love Elm.  Chose Reason because of it's reach. Future is probably going to be FP to JS.
Okay, so Reason is a new syntax for the OCaml language.
Let's look at some of that syntax.  Can you guess what is happening? Syntax cheat sheet.
But it's also a set of tools.
One of those tools is bucklescript.  Bucklescript takes OCaml and returns JS.  No runtime.  Elm has a runtime.  Also, Bucklescript compiled it's own compiler to JS so you can write ReasonML / OCaml in the browser and have it compile in realtime to JS.
Another tool is the reason-cli, which is used for editor support.  Type annotations. Refmt.  Swigglies and errors.  Not required to use Reason.
Okay, so why Reason?  How does it help solve our problem of maintainiblity?
Types are one part, but OCaml offers several built-in features that make it easier to build correct software.

these are .... depreciations...  types and guarantees...  fast compiler... you work in the editor more than compared with JS.

add more here

Facebook is using Reason in production on messenger.com

Okay, so we know the problem we are trying to solve, and supposedly, Reason can help solve this problem. How hard is it to get started?

What I'm about to show should feel quite familiar if you have ReactJS experience. For me, it didn't feel like I was writing a different language.  It felt like I was writing React.

build steps and options

go over Create React App code...

take about a couple Reason specific stuff

go over Stateful component... should feel familiar with Redux experience

take about a couple Reason specific stuff including Redux related stuff